#### To run on UWyo XFCE medicine bow desktop, open the remote desktop with [this link](https://medicinebow.arcc.uwyo.edu/pun/sys/dashboard/batch_connect/sessions) and open remote desktop with OnDemand.

Open RStudio in the remote desktop using 
``` 
module load gcc r/4.4.0 rstudio
module load gdal/3.7.3 udunits/2.2.28
rstudio
```
in the terminal.



## Data Processing for Salix RADCamp Data
24 samples sequences as part of RADcamp 2023 in NYC. 22 samples are within S. arctica var. petrea/S. petrophila taxonomic grouping, spanning range of distribution.

- `params-Brose.txt` has params file generated by Isaac (straight from RADcamp)
- `Brose_barcodes.txt` has sample names and barcode files

`Scripts` directory has params file that was used for this analysis `params-Salix_prelim.txt` 



## Data Processing for Salix popgen preliminary data
### Samples collected in the Bighorns, summer 2023 (Salix, n = 109) Plus Artemisia data from RM (n = 21) and Castilleja data to be resequenced (as a double check that samples weren't mixed up during earlier sequencing runs; n = 6) . Sequenced via Gregg Randolph at the UWyo GTL.

Library prep notes found at [this link from the GTL](https://microcollaborative.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/MICLAB/pages/2228584449/2ND+TANK+GBS+project+1BROSE)
1Brose1 has Eco3, 1Brose2 has Eco8, size selection for 300-500.

Restriction enzymes EcoR1 and Mse1 used, so restriction overhangs for params files should be `AATT, TAA`.
 
 - Params file for demultiplexing step is `params-Salix_Art_Cas.txt` in the `Scripts` directory.

```
cd /project/tanklab/cbrose1/Salix/PopGensampling
```
`Brose1_Demux.csv` has sample names and barcodes for demultiplexing. This one gzipped fastq has Salix, Artemisia, and Castilleja data in it, so we will demultiplex and then batch to separate the unrelated taxa from each other.
params files should show that the allowed barcode mismatch is 1. This allows for more loci to be pulled out and fewer loci trapped in "no barcode match" land.

Branching step after demultiplexing (ipyrad step 1) allows for the datasets to separate and cluster on their own. 
	- `cusickii-reruns` branch gives just the 6 Castilleja sample reruns
	- `Artemisia` branch gives the 21 Artemisia samples
	- `Salix-only` branch is only Salix samples.
	
###### Cusickii reruns - to double check library effects
- merge datasets from original run (rmFailed) and reruns - make sure all names are the same and json files/params files all reflect `/cluster/medbow` rather than `/pfs/tc1`
 (result of the beartooth -> medicinebow update)
 
```
ipyrad -m OldPlusNew params-cusickii-rerun-plusOld-separate.txt ../../cusickii/params_files/params-cusickii_rmFailed.txt
``` 

Merge OldPlus New with cusickii rmFailed to make OldPlusNewPairs dataset (same indv from both datasets)
matrix condenser to check which loci have all 13 samples 
branch OldPlusNewPairs to create new params file that will keep only loci with all 13 samples ()

## ipyrad steps projects
- Salix data separated into 3 populations, branched, and ran separately. This will allow for clustering only in each of the sites rather than across the distant sites. 
- Salix populations each ran with 25, 50, 75, and 90% clustering thresholds and then will be analyzed separately to see what they look like compared to each other.

- All of these have super high missing data %s because of the min number of samples having a locus leaves a ton of missing data. Branching the 90% clustering datasets to have ~ half of the total number of loci to try to preserve data but reduce missing data proportion to try and avoid overflown errors in iqtree.
	- new branching step with tag `_halfloci` at end

## notes for renaming/reuising R scripts from cusickii stuff 
- `popgenCusickii.R` was duplicated and renamed `SalixAnalyses.R`
- `lfmm_cusickii.R` duplicated and renamed `lfmm.R`
- `RDA_cusickii.R` duplicated and renamed `RDA.R`









#### data processing for whole genome stuff 
`NovogeneDownloads` folder has all raw data, summary report, MD5 report directions, and list of how big each file is so you can double check if they were downloaded correctly 
`01.RawData` folder has all of the raw reads and MD5 files for each individual, each in their own folders

- working directory for this is called `SympatryGenomes`
- preliminary scripts for filtering etc beginning analyses are from Sarah Palmieri's github [here](https://github.com/spalmieri02/Passerina-Project) and Sean's github repository from the class [here](https://github.com/seanharrington256/evoanalysis/tree/main)

# notes from Sarah about order to do things after downloading stuff (scripts are in `Scripts` directory, names of files listed after each step): 
- quality check (multiqc)
- combine any files with 4 fastqs to 2 fastqs `rawdatacombine.sh`
- trimming (fastp) `snptrim.sh`
- mapping (BWA-MEM) `bwa.sh`
- check mapping (flag stat) `flagstat.sh`
- remove duplicates `rmdup.sh`
- variant calling; then sort vcfs `varcall.sh`, `sortvcfs.sh`
- combine vcfs into 1 vcf `combinevcf.sh`
- post-variant filtering `filtervcf.sh`
- thinning `thin.sh` 

# notes from me while running these things and asking sean for help 
- when running BWA for mapping - first have to index the genome otherwise it won't work. This also needs to spit out a .fai file for you to use during variant calling, if bwa doesn't do it, use samtools - faidx command will index the reference seq FASTA to create the .fai file
- using samtools to index genome and create .fai requries an unzipped file: 
``` 
gunzip Spurpurea_519_v5.0.fa.gz
module load arcc gcc samtools
samtools faidx Spurpurea_519_v5.0.fa 
```
- indexed file `Spurpurea_519_v5.0.fa.fai` is in same directory as the other genome files `PurpureaGenome/assembly`
- when `varcall.sh` asks for number of scaffolds for the job array, this number should be found in whatever stats thatcome with the genome assembly: Spurpurea_519_v5.0 has 348 scaffolds
- not entirely sure what the point is for the `thin.sh` for why this should be thinned out - this isn't in Sean's code, so I'm not going to deal with it, especially because I didn't want to troubleshoot the issues with it until we need to 
